---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Git and Jim Hall"
---

## Git Exercises
Personally, I would call myself a beginner to Git and Github. My only experience using git/github was as a means to submit assignments/projects for some NYU cs classes. That being said, I know how to clone, add, commit, and push to github. I have had no hands-on experience with pulling, forking, or using github in a collaborative setting. <!--more--> This past week, there was a step-by-step github exercise to walk new users (like myself) though the process of collaborative git. The exercise entailed cloning, forking, modifying, pulling, comitting, and pushing a sample repository. This exercise was intended to teach users the proper methods, and how to use git effectively. Additionally, it stressed the importance of pulling, and problem solving if the repository has been changed or modified since the previous clone. 

## Jim Hall Guest Speaker
This past week, we were also privileged enough to have a guest speaker, Jim Hall. Jim Hall is the leader and founder of the FreeDos open source project. He talked a lot about how he started FreeDos and what FreeDos is today. He also spoke about Open Source, and gave a unique perspective -- as he was in the open source scene since the beginning. His lecture was very insightful and thought provoking. Hearing about the start of FreeDos helped me realize that open source projects can be spontaneous and come from anywhere. Jim Hall also stressed the importance of making a welcoming community when starting an open source project. He told us about how the FreeDos community has contributors from all over the world, and this is due to his code being lanugage friendly. Additonally, FreeDos has a newsletter and twitter to help attract new participants. He has so much experience in the open source community and it was great hearing about his experience in open source.
