---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Browser Extension Focusify"
---

## Focusify
This past week, I, along with a few group members, created a browser extension called Focusify. The purpose of this extension is to remove all the accessories to an instagram feed (i.e. the nav bar, suggested follows, and stories), such that only the actualy feed remains. As a team, it was difficult for us to determine an easy, but useful add-on to code. This was largely in part due to our inexperience -- no one in our group had browser extension experience, and our knowledge of Javascript was limited. <!--more--> In addition to this struggle, our group also encountered issues when coding. In our original attempt, we wanted to make boarders to cover everything except the feed. This was found to be ineffective, as the "<body>" of the HTML only affected half the page, leaving the remaining page boarderless. I had an idea to instead of add boarders, simply hide all the accessories, making their visibility "hidden." This idea was good, but we didn't know how to specifically identify the accessories in the HTML. With research, I discovered we can use "document.querySelector" to choose a unique class. With this, we were able to complete our add-on activity. 

## Other Student Extensions
Like our extension, fellow peers also focused on relatively simple code revolving around the previous beastify and boarderify extenions. There was actually a group (YoutubeEX) that created an extension that was near-identical to ours. The only difference was that their extension worked on Youtube, whereas ours on Instagram. It was really great to see other extensions, and interesting ideas. One extension (BlockIt), was really interesting and quite useful. The extension is used to redirect the user whenever they attempt to access a "blocked" site (i.e. facebook, netflix, etc.) I tested out their add-on activity, and it was amazing! I could definitely see it being useful to students, when trying to minimize distractions.

