---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Code of Conduct"
---

# Code of Conduct

## Overview
When working collaboratively with people from different backgrounds - who may share separate views and opinions - conflict seems inevitable. In the context of open source, code of conducts are created to maintain a healthy environment. These code of conducts uphold contributors to a standard of respect and professionalism. They are essential in open source, especially in an online environment where contributors can be fully anonymous. This code allows participants to converse their different views civilly to further the goal of the project, and decrease the unnecessary toxicity and harassment that may occur. In addition to these guidelines, some codes also provide a means to report any misconduct. 

## Go Code of Conduct
The [Go code of conduct](https://go.dev/conduct) shares many similarities with the contributor code of conduct. One difference is the Go code is slightly more specific. It mentions the project maintainers and the project stewards, and their responsibility in maintaining a healthy environment. They also added specific instructions on who to contact if their ideal values are not upheld. Finally, the Go code also added an “about” section that outlines their values and ideas. These additions may have been added to create a closer sense of community and help participants feel welcome and safe. 

## Eclipse Code of Conduct
The [Eclipse code of conduct](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php) seems to be nearly identical to the contributor code of conduct. It does not add many of the additions that the Go Code of Conduct added. This may be because it is a much larger project, and must keep their code generalized to suit all the contributors. 

## Sugar Code of Conduct
Unlike Go and Eclipse, [Sugar Labs’ code of conduct](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct) is based on the Ubuntu Code of Conduct. Similar to the other codes, it lists out proper behavior that is expected from all individuals and participants. However, one key difference is this code does not provide direct instruction on what to do if the code is violated. 

## Bootstrap Code of Conduct
The [Bootstrap Code of Conduct](https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) is a variation to the contributor code of conduct. Similar to Eclipse, the code is nearly identical to the original contributor code, with only variations in who to contact in case of a complaint. It seems extremely formal and straightforward. 

# Add-On Activity
The add-on activity was really engaging and exciting. Personally, this was my first time experimenting with add-ons, so creating the add-on was quite intimidating. I felt a bit stressed as it was a lot of information to process and understand, but it also felt rewarding when the add-on was successfully installed and working.I hope to eventually learn more, and fully comprehend the code I am using to create these add-ons. 

