---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - Business Models and Group Work
---

## Business Models
On Tuesday, our class had a discussion on business models in open source. We discussed how companies can find a way to profit around open source projects, as it may be difficult to with the code free/project free and open to distribution. Some methods we discussed on how open source developers may be able to recieve payment for their work were -- sponsorship from the government, donations from users, or having advanced features that are not free such as customer support. <!--more--> All these methods seem valid, but without their own shortcomings. Firstly, sponsorship from the government soudns great, but it would likely be rare for the government to specifically sponsor a project. Donations from users is definitly a valid method, but with projects that have a smaller community and user base, donations may not be enough. Finally, advanced features sounds great, but it may not be consistant. Users may sometimes have a lot of difficulty and need customer support, or may have no difficulty at all.Additionally, most users probably wont have a need for advanced features, and will be ok with the free version.


## Zulip Work
This week, we found an issue that we thought we can contribute to easily. It was a simply markeup, where the admin wanted the user id displayed on the profile modal was well. Zulip's documentation was a bit confusing, but we were luckily able to find where the code was placed. We were able to contribute towards teh code promptly, and issued a pull request. We are currently waiting on the results.
