---
layout: post
title: Week 8: Project Group and Tom Callaway
---

## Project Groups
This week, we got our group project assignments and had a chance to meet with our group members. I am in a group with Rebecca and Tanya. I haven't had the opportunity to work with either of them in the past, but our interests alinged very well. We were all interested in mainly front-end development and javascript contributions. We decided on the meeting time of wednesdays at 6:30 PM to meet. This is after all our classes have finished, so we would be free to discuss and work as long as needed.<!--more-->

For our open source project, we decided to pick Zulip. Zulip is an open source messaging platform, extremely similar to Slack. We chose this project as it seems to have an active community, and doable issues. Issues also have labels, one label is named 'good first issues', so it would be easy to find issues at our level. The main downside that we currently see is the dependencies needed to be installed, in order to contribute. It seems confusing and quite difficult. Additionally, we heard from professor that the code does not have good documentation, so it might be difficult to work with at first. Another obstacle our group faces is, no one has really worked with Zulip, so we don't have any user experience to back our contibutions. 

## Tom Callaway
This week, we also had guest speaker Tom Callaway discuess his experience in open source. He previously worked at Red Hat for 20 years, and now is an open source evangelist for AWS. One thing that really stood out to be during Tom's talk was his firm and stubborn ideals. For example, when moving from Red Hat to Amazon, he made sure with Amazon that they would not be interferring with this Open Source ideas, and they wont 'step on his toes.' His main goal for working at Amazon was to do something good for Amazon, by working as an opensource evangelist. He wanted his open source work to help others view Amazon in a better light, and have a positive impact on open source communities.

Another idea that Tom mentioned that really stood out to be is how beginners shouldn't strive for sophisticated code, but rather code that follows the project's guidelines and documemtation. He said that everyone was once a beginner and we all started somewhere. Thus, its ok to ask questions and work at your own pace. Everyone is different, so we should treat everyone fairly and respectfully.
