---
layout: post
title: Week 7: Reflecting on Open Source Globally and Personally
---

## The Cathedral and the Bazaar
I found The Cathedral and the Bazaar surprisingly nice. The narrator had a familiar tone, and he was telling a story about his experiences in open source development. He included many helpful tips and thought-provoking quotes. He explains the two models of development styles: the cathedral and the bazaar. The cathedral style is widely popularized in the commercial world where code is released in full with infrequent updates. The bazaar style is releasing code and updates frequently so developers can test and work on it continuously while recieving community feedback. 

In class, we discussed quotes from The Cathedral and the Bazaar. One quote that really stuck with me was "Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse)." This quote really impacted me because I always find it extremely difficult to start coding -- something similar to writers block. This quote basically says that the internet is our resource, and we should use it to its fullest extent (withing legal bounds of course). Similar to this code, another code that resonated with me was "Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow." This quote accentuates errors that come along with coding. It is inevitable that you will make mistakes, so you might as well code and learn from them. The first version of code will look vastly different than the final version, so plan to throw it away. Always be flexible and open to new avenues when coding. 


## Open Source in Global Affairs
One of the greatest advantages of open source is its avaliablity... anyone in the world can find your project and colelctively contribute towards it. The distribution of knowledge and shared data can do wonders to advance a project, but there may be unwanted negative effects that come with the accessibility -- one example discussed in class was deepfake. These seemingly good projects can be used for malicious reasons. This has been a big debate and issue within the open source community. Personally, I don't know what a possible solution to this may be. It would be saddening to see great open source projects as closed projects, but it is also devastating to see these great projects being used to harm others. 

## Personal Open Source Projects 
I chose Open Food Facts and Bootstrap to evaluate. I have been a big fan of open food facts since high school. When I am espically aware of my health and food intake, I would often look up the item on open food facts. At the time, I had no idea that it was an open source project, but after learning about open source, I told myself I had to see the github and contribution sections. Surprisingly, the repository was rather inactive. The last commit was approximately 8 days ago. I think it is definitely something that is beginner friendly, but the main downside is the rather inactive communtiy.

I first used Bootstrap my freshman year of college. Quite honestly, it was a terrible experience because I had no idea on how to code HTML or CSS. Overtime, and after many CS classes that required website creation, I have grown to really like Bootstrap. It is an opensource HTML CSS formatting code website -- it gives code that will format your pages however you like (i.e. navbars, dropdown forms, etc). 
