---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Swift and Open Sorce Videos"
---

## Swift
This past week, I, along with a partner, investigated Swift as an open source project. Swift is a programming language, mainly for iOS devices, that is used for application development. From a beginner perspective, Swift was not beginner friendly. <!--more--> This was primarily because the community seemed extremely professional and straight to the point. There were not discussions to help amateurs and beginners. Additionally, the issue/bugs were stored in a separate database, that did not include tags on each bug. Therefore, it would be difficult for beginners to find which issues they could solve, or contribute to. Furtheremore, Swift's github is extremely active, and the communtiy is huge, which may deter beginners from trying to contribute. 
  
## Open Sorce Project Video
One open source video I watched was "Healthcare Made Human." This project is striving to create a platform where patients can view their doctor's notes about their visit or condition. What struck me about this project was its community; one of the most outspoken members was neither a doctor nor coder, but a patient. She has no experience in what doctors write or how to implement the project, but the perspective she brings is cherished by the communtiy. She brings so much to the project with her ideas and approach. Another open source video I wastched was "A Food Computer in 60 Seconds." This project grows self sufficient plants using code and engineering. It was really fascinating seeing code capable of creating life. 

