---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Tidepool and Open Sorce for Community"
---

## Tidepool
This past week, we had guest speaker Christopher Snider talk to us about Tidepool, an open source project regarding diabetes and health. What really stood out to be about Tidepool was its diversity. Many of the members in the community were coders. In fact, Christopher wasn't that well versed in the coding aspect of the open source project himself.  <!--more--> This really showed me how inclusive and broad the community is. Christopher gave a rather broad speech, which I could relate to more. He talked a lot about the community and the mission -- how they are striving towards a cheaper, more affordable plan for diabetics. As a former prehealth student myself, I can really relate to the outrageously expensive medications, that are often avaliable to only a few. His talk gave me hope for cheaper healthcare options in the foture, throught the use of opensource. One issue addressed by opensource and healthcare was data security. Chris mentioned at one point that because the databases were located in the United States, certain contributiors from around the world may have to be denied access, as per HIPPA law. This gave me a bit of relief, as open source is often seen in correlation to transparent information -- but in the healthcare sense, some information should be secure. I would definitely like to learn more about the intricacies of laws and open source, espically where they may clash.

## Open Sorce in Communities
In our class discussion, we talked a lot about open source and its role in communitites. I think the greatest advantage of open source, is its exposure. It brings people together, often people who had no interest in the original topic (children farming with robots). Additionally, we have seen open source largely be used as a means to bring people together to better the world ... whether that be in healthcare, environment, or data pooling. I think a lot of modern issues can be resolved using open source. 
